First cut at adding IP-ID (#54)
richsalz/draft-ietf-uta-rfc6125bis: draft-ietf-uta-rfc6125bis.md

  ALPN: RFC7301
  DANE: RFC6698
  DNS-CASE: RFC4343
  DNS-TERMS: RFC8499
  DNSSEC: RFC4033
  DTLS: RFC9147

>   EMAIL-SRV: RFC6186

Author: ```suggestion
  EMAIL-SRV: RFC6186
  HTTP: RFC9110
```

### In Scope {#in-scope}

This document applies only to service identities that are used in TLS or DTLS

> and are included in PKIX certificates.

Reviewer: maybe: 'and that are included ...'

Author: ```suggestion
and that are included in PKIX certificates.
```

  described above, such as rfc822Name, are beyond the scope
  of this document.

> * Identification beyond what the selected types of identities in the PKIX

Reviewer: Does this imply that all possible types are supported by this document? If so, then maybe append "that are discussed here"  If not, then ignore this.

> * Identification beyond what the selected types of identities in the PKIX
>   certificate can express.

Author: ```suggestion
* Identification of servers using other than a domain name, IP address, or SRV service name.
```

I'm not really sure about this, but maybe this is probably more accurate.

{::boilerplate bcp14-tagged}

# Identifying Application Services {#names}

This document assumes that an application service is identified by a DNS domain
name (e.g., `example.com`), an IP address (IPv4 or IPv6), or is an identifier

> that contains additionally supplementary information.  Supplementary information

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that contains additional supplementary information.  Supplementary information
```

{::boilerplate bcp14-tagged}

# Identifying Application Services {#names}

This document assumes that an application service is identified by a DNS domain

> name (e.g., `example.com`), an IP address (IPv4 or IPv6), or is an identifier

Reviewer: s/is an identifier/or by an identifier/ ?

Author: ```suggestion
name (e.g., `example.com`), an IP address (IPv4 or IPv6), or by an identifier
```

  A-labels, or U-labels, as described in {{IDNA-DEFS}} and the associated
  documents.

> An IP address is either a 4 byte IPv4 address {{!IPv4=RFC0791}} or a 16 byte

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An IP address is either a 4-byte IPv4 address {{!IPv4=RFC0791}} or a 16-byte
```

it does so, then the specification MUST state that wildcard certificates as
defined in this document are not supported.

> A protocol can allow the use of an IP address in place of a DNS name.  This

Reviewer: s/can/may/

Author: Do you mean "MAY" or "may"?  As this is not being permissive - this is merely a fact - I think that avoiding any implication of this being permissive is better.

Reviewer 2: Agreed, I prefer can to may here.

might use the same field without distinguishing the type of identifier, see for
example {{URI}}.  In this case, applications need to be aware that the textual

> representation of an IPv4 address can appear to be a valid DNS name.  The two

Reviewer: s/appear to be/look like (but isn't)/

Author: ```suggestion
representation of an IPv4 address can appear to be a valid DNS name, though it is not.  The two
```

would derive the application service type `sip` from the scheme
and parse the domain name `example.net` from the host component.

> Each reference identifier in the list MUST be based on the input material and

Reviewer 2: We should define "input material" in the Terminology section. This might be slightly messy, because we can't very well use the term "source IP" as a parallel to "source domain" since "source IP" usually means something different (in connection-oriented protocols anyway)...

Author: Would this be better?

```suggestion
Each reference identifier in the list MUST be based on the user inputs and
```

MUST NOT be based on a derived domain such as a domain name discovered

> through DNS resolution of those inputs.  This rule is important because

Reviewer 2: There isn't DNS resolution of an IP address in this context, is there?

Reviewer 2: Thoughts on a solution?

Author: I think that this is a bigger issue that this is just being exposed by this change.

The document talks about reference identifiers, but doesn't really go into much detail about how those are created.  I think that you already have much of what you need in Section 6.1.1.

Where it says:

> The client might need to extract the source domain and application service type from the input(s) it has received. 

You might instead say:

> This document doesn't precisely define how reference identifiers are derived.Applications that use this document need to define how reference identifiers are determined.  The security of a system that uses this document will depend on how reference identifiers are obtained.

Then back to the existing language:

> Naturally, if the inputs themselves are invalid or corrupt (e.g., a user has clicked a link provided by a malicious entity in a phishing attack), then the client might end up communicating with an unexpected application service.

Then for this text, we have a case where the system might handle an identifier that *looks* like a reference identifier, but it isn't.  What we're really saying here is:

> During the course of processing, a client might be exposed to identifiers that look like reference identifiers.  For example, DNS resolution that starts at a DNS-ID reference identifier might produce intermediate domain names that need to be further resolved.
>
> Any intermediate values are not reference identifiers and MUST NOT be treated as such, except as defined by the application.  In the DNS case, not treating intermediate domain names as reference identifiers removes DNS and DNS resolution from the attack surface.  An application might define a process for authenticating these intermediate identifiers in a way that then allows them to be used as a reference identifier; see for example {{?RFC8689}}.

Reviewer 2: Hi Martin, my apologies about the one-month delay in replying. Although much of your text seems fine, I suspect that this topic should be addressed in a separate issue/PR because, as you say, it was lurking all along and has merely been exposed by adding support for the IP-ID type.

Reviewer 2: Now see https://github.com/richsalz/draft-ietf-uta-rfc6125bis/issues/63

Reviewer 2: P.S. If the changes in this PR are acceptable to @richsalz then I suggest we merge it and deal with the reference identifier issue separately.

Reviewer 2: P.P.S. If this approach seems sensible, we can resolve this particular conversation before the merge. :-)

only a match between the user inputs and a presented identifier enables the
client to be sure that the certificate can legitimately be used to secure the
client's communication with the server. This removes
DNS and DNS resolution from the attack surface.

> Using the combination of FQDN(s), IP address(es), and application service type, the client

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Using the combination of FQDN(s) or IP address(es) plus optionally an application service type, the client
```

would derive the application service type `sip` from the scheme
and parse the domain name `example.net` from the host component.

Each reference identifier in the list MUST be based on the user inputs and
MUST NOT be based on a derived domain such as a domain name discovered
through DNS resolution of those inputs.  This rule is important because
only a match between the user inputs and a presented identifier enables the
client to be sure that the certificate can legitimately be used to secure the
client's communication with the server. This removes
DNS and DNS resolution from the attack surface.

> Using the combination of FQDN(s) or IP address(es) plus optionally an application service type, the client

Reviewer: comma before "plus optionally"

Author: ```suggestion
Using the combination of FQDN(s) or IP address(es), plus optionally an application service type, the client
```

Before applying the comparison rules provided in the following
sections, the client might need to split the reference identifier into
components.
Each reference identifier produces either a domain name or an IP address and
optionally an application service type as follows:

* A DNS-ID reference identifier MUST be used directly as the DNS domain
  name and there is no application service type.

> * An IP-ID reference identifier MUST be exactly equal to the value of a

Reviewer 2: Do we want to say something like "bit-string equivalent" or at the end of the sentence "where equal means that the application performs octet-for-octet matching to test for bit-string identity"? (text borrowed from RFC 8264)

Author: ```suggestion
* An IP-ID reference identifier MUST be exactly equal, octet for octet, to the value of a
```

For information regarding the security characteristics of wildcard
certificates, see {{security-wildcards}}.

## Matching an IP Address Portion {#verify-ip}

> An IP-ID matches based on comparing the bytes of the reference identity to the

Reviewer 2: See above on octet-by-octet matching, which might be a more precise formulation than "comparing the bytes".

Author: ```suggestion
An IP-ID matches based on an octet-for-octet comparison of the bytes of the reference identity with the
```

certificates. For discussion, see for example {{IDNA-DEFS, Section 4.4}}
and {{UTS-39}}.

## IP Addresses

The TLS Server Name Indication (SNI) extension only conveys domain names.
Therefore, a client with an IP-ID reference identity cannot present any
information about its reference identity when connecting to a server.  Servers
that wish to present an IP-ID therefore need to present this identity when a
connection is made without SNI.

The textual representation of an IPv4 address might be misinterpreted as a valid

> FQDN in some contexts.  If this can result in different security treatment and

Reviewer 2: I'm having trouble parsing this sentence. Perhaps "and if"?

Author: ```suggestion
FQDN in some contexts. This can result in different security treatment that might cause
```

...

> different components of a system classify the value differently, this might lead

Author: ```suggestion
different components of a system to classify the value differently, which might lead
```

- Additional text on multiple identifiers, and their security considerations,
  has been added.

> - IP-ID reference identifiers are added.

Reviewer 2: It'd be nice to include a pointer to RFC 9110 here.

Reviewer 2: Something like "Extending work done in RFC 9110, added support for IP addresses in certificates via the IP-ID reference identifier type."

> - IP-ID reference identifiers are added.

Author: ```suggestion
- IP-ID reference identifiers are added.  This builds on the definition in {{Section
  4.3.5 of HTTP}}.
```

Then you will need to add to the references...

# Contributors

> Jeff Hodges co-authored the previous version of these recommendations, {{VERIFY}}.

Reviewer 2: I suggest that we add something to the acknowledgements specifying that "Martin Thomson contributed the text about IP-IDs."

Author: I'll leave that to you :)

Reviewer 2: Yes, will do. :-)

Reviewer 2: Done: https://github.com/richsalz/draft-ietf-uta-rfc6125bis/pull/62
